Link 2.0 (#4)
codex-editor/link: README.md

![](https://badgen.net/badge/CodeX%20Editor/v2.0/blue)

# Link Tool

> Link Block for the [CodeX Editor](https://ifmo.su/editor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Link Block for the [CodeX Editor](https://codex.so/editor).
```

![](https://capella.pics/dcf81467-d6f5-4722-a795-13a2becd6aa9.jpg)

## Features

Allows to add link previews to your articles.

**Note:** this Tool requires server-side implementation for link data fetching. See [backend response format](#server-format) for more details.

## Installation

### Install via NPM

Get the package

```shell
npm i --save-dev codex.editor.link
```

Include module at your application

```javascript
const LinkTool = require('codex.editor.link');
```

### Download to your project's source dir

> 1. Upload folder `dist` from repository

Reviewer 2: Download

### Load from CDN

You can load specific version of package from [jsDelivr CDN](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/codex.editor.link).

`https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/codex.editor.link@2.0.0`

Then require this script on page with CodeX Editor through the `<script src=""></script>` tag.

## Usage

Add a new Tool to the `tools` property of the CodeX Editor initial config.

```javascript
var editor = CodexEditor({
  ...

  tools: {
    ...
    linkTool: {
      class: LinkTool,
      config: {
        endpoint: 'http://localhost:8008/fetchUrl', // Your backend endpoint for url data fetching
      }
    }
  }

  ...
});
```

## Config Params

Link Tool supports these configuration parameters:

| Field    | Type        | Description                                    |
| ---------|-------------|------------------------------------------------|
| endpoint | `string`    | **Required:** endpoint for link data fetching. |

## Output data

This Tool returns `data` with following format

| Field          | Type      | Description                     |
| -------------- | --------- | ------------------------------- |
| link           | `string`  | Pasted link url                 |

> | linkData       | `object`  | Fetched link data. Any data got from backend. Currently title, image and description are supported by plugin's design. |

Reviewer 2: Почему не просто data? Если смущает `data.data`, то может `meta` назвать?
